Journalist asks... Why not cut the rates now, especially since inflation has been falling steadily for 11 months and the economy has avoided a recession?

Powell answers... We have a strong economy with solid growth and a strong labor market. We want to see more evidence that inflation is moving sustainably down to 2% before we begin to cut interest rates.

Journalist asks... Are you committed to getting all the way to 2.0 before you cut the rates?

Powell answers... No, we're committed to returning inflation to 2% over time. We wouldn't wait to get to 2% to cut rates.

Journalist asks... Was the Fed too slow to recognize inflation in 2021?

Powell answers... In hindsight, it would have been better to have tightened policy earlier. We thought the economy would fix itself quickly, but when it became clear that inflation was not transitory, we pivoted and started tightening, which was essential for bringing down inflation.

Journalist asks... What is the likelihood of another real estate-led banking crisis?

Powell answers... I don't think that's likely. We looked at the larger banks' balance sheets, and it appears to be a manageable problem. There may be some smaller banks that have to be closed or merged out of existence, but I don't see much risk of a repeat of 2008.

Journalist asks... Is the national debt a danger to the economy, in your view?

Powell answers... In the long run, the U.S. is on an unsustainable fiscal path. It's time for us to get back to putting a priority on fiscal sustainability, and sooner is better than later.

Journalist asks... Your decisions inevitably are going to have a bearing on this year's election. To what degree does politics determine your timing?

Powell answers... We do not consider politics in our decisions. It's not easy to get the economics of this right in the first place, and if we try to incorporate politics into those decisions, it could only lead to worse economic outcomes. We simply don't do that and we're not going to do it.